2
 

Enrollment
rank in district 

Enrollment
Rank in Level 

Utilization rank
in district 

Utilization
rank in level 

FCA rank in
district 

FCA rank in
level 

Putnam
12th percentile
13th percentile
10th percentile
9th percentile
38th percentile
41st percentile

 
 

1. Building Utilization: Evaluation of current building enrollment relative to capacity, benchmarked against 
the 70%–95% optimal target range. 
• 
Putnam: 

o RIC Current: 174/575=30% 
o NSC Current: 174/460=38% 

 

2. Facility Condition Assessment and Quality: Evaluation of physical accessibility, security infrastructure, 
repairability, physical plant needs, and outdoor recreational space. 
• 
Putnam’s building condition is in the lower half of the district. 

• 
Repairability and deferred maintenance costs at Putnam are estimated at $5.0 million. 

 

3. Enrollment Projections: Longitudinal demographic analysis and multi-year student enrollment forecasts 
across feeder areas. 
• 
Putnam Elementary has experienced continuously declining enrollment. The 2021-2022 school year 
had the highest enrollment of the past 5 school years, 253 students. Student enrollment at Putnam 
Elementary is projected at 158 students in the 2026-2027 school year and is expected to remain in 
continuous decline for the next five years, losing up to 60 students, 38.0%, by the 2030-2031 school 
year. At this time, we expect an enrollment of approximately 98 students in the 2030-2031 school 
year. Putnam Elementary has a high choice-out rate of approximately 60%, compared with a 33% 
choice-in rate. Fewer students choice into Putnam as families increasingly attend their 
neighborhood schools, while existing grade-level cohorts are also losing several students from year 
to year. These patterns further weaken the long-term feeder pipeline. 

B. Implementation Criteria (Operational Viability & Transition Management) 

1. Traffic, Safety, and Walkability: Management of vehicular traffic flow, pedestrian safety, and 
neighborhood walkability for students and families. 

• 
39 students that previously walked to Putnam will be eligible for busing to their new neighborhood 
school at Tavelli or Dunn. 

• 
Increased traffic is expected around both receiving schools with increased enrollment. 

• 
PSD, City of Fort Collins, and Larimer County recognize there will be increased delays around the 
receiving schools during 15-minute peak periods at pick-up and drop-off times. 

• 
Dunn is in the City of Fort Collins and has minimal curb and parking space and ample infrastructure 
within walk boundaries. The minimal available parking may be restricted to accommodate 
additional bus parking. 

• 
Tavelli is an annex within the City of Fort Collins. Existing infrastructure is limited within walk 
boundaries. Traffic is congested around the site and may require a change to traffic plans and 


