2
 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 

A. Identification Criteria (Warrants Consideration for Action) 

• 
Identification criteria: Irish Elementary meets 5 out of 6 of the identification criteria, with 1 criterion 
ranking in the bottom half of the district. 

Enrollment 
rank in district

Enrollment 
Rank in Level

Utilization rank 
in district

Utilization 
rank in level

FCA rank in 
district

FCA rank in 
level

Irish
22nd percentile
28th

percentile 

20th percentile
22nd percentile
14th percentile
9th percentile

 

1. Building Utilization: Evaluation of current building enrollment relative to capacity, benchmarked against 
the 70%–95% optimal target range. 
• 
RIC Current: 272/669=41% 

• 
NSC Current:272/535=51% 

 

2. Facility Condition Assessment and Quality: Evaluation of physical accessibility, security infrastructure, 
repairability, physical plant needs, and outdoor recreational space. 
• 
Irish’s building condition is in the lower quartile of the district. 

• 
Repairability and deferred maintenance costs at Irish are estimated at $1.9 million. 

 

 

3. Enrollment Projections: Longitudinal demographic analysis and multi-year student enrollment forecasts 
across feeder areas. 
• 
Student Enrollment at Irish Elementary is projected at 251 students in the 2026-2027 school year 
and is expected to remain in continuous decline for the next five years losing up to 63 students, 
25.1%, by the 2030-2031 school year. At this time, we expect a funded enrollment of approximately 
188 students during the 2030-2031 school year. 

• 
Irish Elementary choice-in and choice-out rates are currently balanced at approximately 38% but 
combined with declining enrollment across the feeder area, this suggests continued pressure on 
Irish’s future enrollment beyond school choice patterns alone. 

 

B. Implementation Criteria (Operational Viability & Transition Management) 

 
4. Traffic, Safety, and Walkability: Management of vehicular traffic flow, pedestrian safety, and 
neighborhood walkability for students and families. 
• 
Parent pickup traffic at CLPE is close to the bus zone but separated. Bus and parent traffic leave the 
same exit causing congestion. 

• 
Parent pickup traffic at Bauder is separated from the bus zone, reducing congestion. 


