1
 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
Executive Closure 
Recommendation 

 

 

Summary Rationale 

While Blevins Middle School has a high facility condition, the enrollment and utilization are some of the lowest 
in the district. Lincoln MS and CLPMS were also considered for potential closure in this region. Lincoln had 
higher current and projected utilization. Closing CLPMS would have required several additional bus routes (7-8 
routes), and it was determined to not be feasible for closure for this reason. Ultimately, Blevins was selected for 
closure due its’ low projected enrollment and utilization, proximity to two other middle schools, and creating a 
healthier overall utilization in the west region of the district. Blevins Middle School has also experienced 
continuously declining enrollment with a projected future enrollment of 179 students in 2030. 

Blevins is the best choice due to its’ enrollment, utilization, and feasible transportation options to other west 
side middle schools. This scenario enables students to receive access to more extracurriculars, programming, 
electives, and more full-time staff by ending Lincoln and Webber. 

Financial Considerations: Cost for overall day-to-day operation could decrease by $940,000. This includes 
changes to student-based budget, school administration, custodial, child nutrition, and utilities. 

 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 

 

A. Identification Criteria (Warrants Consideration for Action) 

• 
Identification criteria: Blevins meets 3 out of the 6 criteria, with a 4th criteria in the bottom half of the 
district. 

Meets
bottom 

Enrollment
rank in 

Enrollment
Rank in Level 

Utilization
rank in district 

Utilization
rank in level 

FCA rank in
district 

FCA rank in
level 

School Name: Blevins 
Proposed Action: [ X] Closure [ ] Relocation [ ] Consolidation 
Receiving School Site(s): Lincoln and Webber 


