1

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
Executive Closure 
Recommendation 

School Name:  Poudre Community Academy and Centennial High School 
Proposed Action:  [ ] Closure [X ] Relocation  [ X] Consolidation 
Consolidated School Site(s):  TBD 

Summary Rationale 

Poudre Community Academy and Centennial High School are good candidates to be consolidated into one 
alternative education campus.  Poudre Community Academy ranked #1 for high schools and #2 in the northwest 
overall on the composite z-scores.  Centennial High School ranked #1 in the northeast region across all schools 
on the composite z-scores.  Committee members shared concerns about the equity of more vulnerable students 
being in buildings with lower facility condition scores, with both campuses falling in the 10th percentile and 
below.  Given that both campus enrollments require a high level of financial resourcing due to their small size 
that is above what would be provided to an alternative education program, members felt that more full-time 
staff and increased access to electives and programming opportunities would be more available at one campus 
than two to best serve students who have selected an alternative education program. Both campuses are not 
impacted significantly by transportation or center-based specialized programming that could not be adapted 
under one consolidated school. 
Alternative Education defined: In Colorado, an Alternative Education Campus (AEC) is a public or charter 
secondary school designated by the State Board of Education that serves a student population comprised of at 
least 90% high-risk students.  (source:  Colorado Department of Education) 

Financial Considerations:   
No receiving location is identified. Cost for overall day-to-day operation are projected to decrease by $255,000.  
This includes changes to student-based budget, school administration, custodial, child nutrition, and utilities. 
Estimated facilities costs are shown above. 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 


