1
 

School Name: Irish 
Proposed Action: [ X] Closure [ ] Relocation [ ] Consolidation 
Receiving School Site(s): Bauder, CLPE 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
Executive Closure 
Recommendation 

 

 

Summary Rationale 

Irish Elementary has experienced continuously declining enrollment. Student enrollment at Irish Elementary is 
projected at 251 students in the 2026-2027 school year and is expected to remain in continuous decline for the 
next five years losing up to 84 students, 30.8%, by the 2030-2031 school year. At this time, we expect a funded 
enrollment of approximately 188 students during the 2030-2031 school year. This is less than a two-track school. 

Irish’s current utilization is under 50%. 

Putnam and Irish were considered for combining, but overall west side enrollment and utilization as well as 
student programming are improved by both schools closing rather than consolidating. Within the equity 
analysis, closing Irish and Putnam was also affirmed as a preferred scenario over consolidating to create more 
diverse and less segregated communities by language, culture, and socioeconomic status. Research supports 
that more integrated school environments produce better short term and long-term effects for children. To 
mitigate the loss of the Dual Language Program at Irish, a specialized transition plan for multilingual learners has 
been created to ensure continuity of access to DL for the students that need the program the most. This 
scenario enables students to receive access to more extra-curriculars, programming, and more full-time staff by 
attending Bauder/CLPE. Additionally, this scenario improves the utilization and enrollment of Cache La Poudre 
Elementary and Bauder Elementary. 

There is no center-based program at Irish, so continuity of programming for students served with a significant 
IEP will not be disrupted. Continuity of dual language programming will be addressed through possible 
integration of students at Harris Elementary or a future expansion of dual-language programming at a single 
site. 

Financial Considerations: Cost for overall day-to-day operation could decrease by $1.91 million. This assumes an 
Irish and Putnam closure. This includes changes to student-based budget, school administration, custodial, child 
nutrition, and utilities. 


