1

School Name: Timnath 
Proposed Action: [ X] Closure [ ] Relocation [ ] Consolidation [ X] Boundary change 
Receiving School Site(s): Bamford and Linton 

•
This scenario also recommends two boundary shifts. Reassign Grid Code 1254 from Bamford to
Bacon. Reassign Grid Codes 1313 and 1314 from Werner to Bacon. Both boundary adjustments are
recommended due to increased walkability in this region to Bacon, reducing some transportation
routes. Grid code 1313 is a new-build apartment complex, just recently framed. No inhabitants
currently.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
Executive Closure 
Recommendation 

Summary Rationale 
Timnath Elementary is recommended for closure primarily due to its’ facilities condition. It is not ADA compliant 
and creating physical accessibility would be a significant challenge. The group felt that the lack of access for 
students with disabilities and the difficulty to bring the facility to a level of accessibility as well as overall modern 
standards for all students, Timnath Elementary needed to be considered for closure. To bring the building up to 
modern standards and perform deferred maintenance, millions of dollars would need to be invested in a 
building that is not able to meet the current needs of our students. Nearby elementary schools can absorb the 
student enrollment in more up to date school environments. Timnath Elementary ranks in the lowest 10th 
percentile on the two facility condition criteria and in the upper half on four of the criteria. 

Financial Considerations: 
Cost for overall day-to-day operation could decrease by $750,000. 

This includes changes to student-based budget, school administration, custodial, child nutrition, and utilities. 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 


