1
 

School Name: Red Feather Lakes, Stove Prairie, Livermore Elementary 
Proposed Action: [ X] Closure [ ] Relocation [ ] Consolidation 
Receiving School Site(s): CLP Elementary 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
Executive Closure 
Recommendation 

 

 

Summary Rationale 

The three mountain schools, Red Feather Lakes, Stove Prairie, and Livermore, ranked #1, 2, and 3 of the 
elementary schools on the combined z-scores for the northwest region as the best candidates for closure. 
Analyses indicated concerns about access to emergency services and increased risk due to natural disasters with 
young children being geographically remote and the increased responsibility on school staff to ensure their 
safety. Middle school students from the mountain school communities travel to CLPMS for middle school and 
will be riding on buses together with younger siblings. Bringing the Mountain Schools to CLPE increases the 
enrollment and utilization at CLPE as well as creating more opportunities for access to additional programming 
that is available at CLPE and not currently available at the Mountain Schools. This scenario enables students to 
receive access to more extracurriculars, programming, emergency services, and more full-time staff by attending 
Cache La Poudre Elementary. 

Financial Considerations: 
Cost for overall day-to-day operation could decrease by $2.12 million. This includes changes to student-based 
budget, school administration, custodial, child nutrition, and utilities. The Mountain Schools are the most 
expensive schools in PSD to operate at $27,214 per pupil/annually. 

 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 

A. Identification Criteria (Warrants Consideration for Action) 

• 
Identification criteria: The Mountain Schools rank in the lowest quartile on 4 out of 6 identification criteria. 

Enrollment
rank in 

Enrollment
Rank in Level 

Utilization
rank in district 

Utilization
rank in level 

FCA rank in
district 

FCA rank in
level 

district


