1
 

PROPOSAL & ANALYSIS 

School Name: Putnam 
Proposed Action: [ X] Closure [ ] Relocation [ ] Consolidation 
Receiving School Site(s): Tavelli, Dunn 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
School Closure Recommendation 

 

 

Summary Rationale 

Putnam Elementary has experienced continuously declining enrollment. 5-year projections put Putnam 
Elementary with an enrollment of 98 students for the 2030-31 school year. This is less than a one-track school 
(16 students in each class). 

Putnam’s utilization is 27.48% RIC and 34.35% NSC, which is less than 1/3rd of the building is utilized. Putnam 
and Irish were considered for combining, but overall west side enrollment and utilization as well as student 
programming are improved by both schools closing rather than consolidating. Within the equity analysis, closing 
Irish and Putnam was also affirmed as a preferred scenario over consolidating to create more diverse and less 
segregated communities by language, culture, and socioeconomic status. Research supports that more 
integrated school environments produce better short term and long-term effects for children. This scenario 
enables students to receive access to more extracurriculars, programming, and more full-time staff by attending 
Dunn/Tavelli. 

Financial Considerations: Cost for overall day-to-day operation could decrease by $1.91 million. This assumes 
an Irish and Putnam closure together. This includes changes to student-based budget, school administration, 
custodial, child nutrition, and utilities. 

 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 

A. Identification Criteria (Warrants Consideration for Action) 

• 
Identification criteria: Putnam Elementary has 4 out of 6 of the identification criteria in the lowest quartile, 
with 2 criteria ranking in the bottom half of the district. 


