1
 

School Name: Beattie 
Proposed Action: [ X] Closure [ ] Relocation [ ] Consolidation 
Receiving School Site(s): Lopez and Bennett Elementary 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY COVER SHEET 

School Closure, Consolidation, and/or Relocation Recommendation — PSD Board Policy FCB-R 

 

District 
Poudre School District (PSD) 
Governing Policy 
Board Policy FCB & Regulation 
FCB-R 

Target Audience 
Superintendent of Schools & 
Board of Education 

Cross-Referenced 
Policy JC (Attendance) & Policy 
JFBA (Choice) 

Document 
Purpose 

Policy FCB-R Criteria Compliance 
Cover Sheet 

Status / Scope 
Executive Closure 
Recommendation 

 

 

Summary Rationale 

Multiple scenarios were evaluated for the 5 southwest elementary schools (Beattie, Johnson, Lopez, McGraw, 
Olander). Beattie Elementary ranked 5th in the region on composite z-scores. This was largely skewed by the 
facility condition assessment of adding air conditioning and the facility size of Beattie being one of the smaller 
schools in the region which increases its’ utilization percentile. Due to physical size constraints and floor plan, 
the committee did not support Beattie being a receiving school in any scenario and believed its' current and 
future enrollment needed to be addressed to improve the educational programming. The implementation 
criteria evaluation elevated two areas of additional concern about Beattie. It was noted to be a more 
challenging receiver site for intensive center-based programs due to the open floor plan and needing to create 
secure spaces for more significantly impacted students. Additionally, Beattie's open floor plan was noted as a 
more at-risk environment to secure in a school lockdown. After reviewing the identification criteria, 
implementation analysis, and equity analysis, the CPC determined that Beattie would be recommended due to 
its' current and projected enrollment, low utilization, facility design, proximity to other elementary schools, and 
how its' closure contributes to positively providing greater stability and programmatic opportunities for all 
students in the region. 

Financial Considerations: 
Cost for overall day-to-day operation could decrease by $1.89 million (includes estimate for Johnson closure as 
well). This includes changes to student-based budget, school administration, custodial, child nutrition, and 
utilities. 

 

Criteria Evaluation 

Per FCB-R, staff recommendations for school closure, consolidation, or relocation are based on an analysis of 
two primary criteria sets (identification and implementation criteria): 


